# NLP_Notes
In my view, NLP is a field at the intersection of Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, and linguistics majorly. The goal for Computers or NLP applications to “process” or “understand” natural language as it is spoken or written by humans in each and every human language in order to perform tasks like language translation or answering a question.

Why NLP is a fascinating field?

Firstly, it is challenging and why so? NLP is one of the most important technology which tries to understand and represent the meaning of human language which is an extremely difficult tasks as human language is quite special. What is special about our language you ask? A lot of things actually, it is mostly discrete, symbolic or categorical and specifically constructed to convey the speaker’s or writer’s thought. It can also be used as a way for communicating in various ways such as sound, tone, writing, gesture and images which itself presents a challenge to capture the intent of the speaker. For example take this sentence: So, at what time is the meeting? Now read this in different tones, it can be read in an arrogant tone, in a polite tone etc etc. Do you see how difficult for a machine to understand the intent of the speaker? On top of that add sarcasm(well, fortunately we are not there yet! Do not go home today and start commending your Alexa in an sarcastic tone). Our language in general is an ambiguous one. Meanings of words can change depending upon the circumstances. Human Language is bound by time(watch Arrival movie which is based on this concept). All these extreme cases are being analysed and understood by most of our existing chatbots because of NLP.

Secondly, number of opportunities. There is a fast growing engineering industry/discipline in industries which uses NLP to develop abundant applications ranging from simple to very complex one which are being used in various industries. Some of the areas where NLP is applied are: Spell checking, Keyword search, extracting information, sentimental analysis, speech recognition and dialog agents. All these open a wide area for application developers to learn new technology and develop an application which might change how we carry out so many mundane tasks which need human interactions(Ex: chatbots, call centers etc).
